THIS DIRECTORY CONTAINS ADDITIONAL SCRIPTS IN CASE THE MAIN
setup_chroot.sh HAS FAILED YOU.


for the time being, some hacked up setup_chroot.sh scripts are located
here. ultimately, these hacked up scripts in this directory will be
removed.  the rationale is simply that maintaining individual scripts for
each OS will be a maintenance nightmare.

however, setup_chroot.sh has been modified to support pre and post setup
scripts, which are in the arch sudirectory. it is my hope to isolate OS 
specific commands into small easily managed files.


here are some notes regarding the new architecture:

well, as many of you know, setup_chroot.sh and setup_chroot.sh.in has been
one of the most problematic aspects of scponly installation.  a generic
script to create chrooted jails just isnt as easy as one might hope.  
i've done some initial overhauling, and as per Sven's suggestion, come up
with a framework for a more extensible installation script.

the first part of the setup_chroot script is intended just to figure
things out, without making any changes. it looks like this:

 - probe the filesystem for the locations of binaries
 - probe the filesystem for the locations of libraries required by the
	binaries
 - ask the user a couple of questions about their preferences
 - check for the existence of an OS specific presetup script in the
	build_extras/arch directory

the idea here is that the generic case (setup_chroot.sh) will take a best
guess approach, but any customizations required for the various platforms
can be located in a seperate file.

the pathname of this file will be "build_extras/arch/`uname -sr`.pre.sh"

the second part of the installation script actually makes the changes, as
follows:
 - install directories
 - install binaries
 - install libraries
 - check for the existence of a postsetup script in the build_extras/arch
	directory

the pathname of this file will be "build_extras/arch/`uname -sr`.post.sh"

so for example, additional things required for redhat, debian, irix,
solaris, etc etc ad nauseum can be located in seperate files.

it is my hope that people will contribute these presetup and postsetup
scripts to me via email, so that i can add them to the arch directory.

let me know if you see any problems with this idea.  incidentally, i think
it initially came from Roland Lammel.
